30 Minutes Human # 00092
Deathbed, Grandma, Vision, Young Love, Blissful
December 21, 2025

She was dying. She knew she was dying. She reached for her bedside table and grabbed the glass of water, but then realized that she had neither the position to drink it without dribbling all over herself nor the strength to sit up and change her inclination. Although she was thirsty, she desisted.
Antonella pranced in and patted her hand. "Hi Grandma. How are you feeling?" She looked up at her with wide expectant eyes.
"I'm alright, sweetheart. Feeling better every day," she lied, and wondered why she did so.
"Oh, that's great, Grandma. When you get better you can get up and we can play some Monopoly."
"You know how to play Monopoly?" The thought of little 'Nella getting a mortgage on Vermont Avenue made her smile despite the pain and exhaustion. There was life, and as long as there was life, there was hope, there was a future. They'd all be alright.
"I do Grandma, I do, I do. I learned. I roll the dice, buy some properties, get that cash!"
The way she said it made her grandmother chuckle.
"Let's do this, sweetheart. Call Molly here for me. I'll have her get a table and we'll play Monopoly right now. Why wait? You can have bring your chair."
"Yes! Yes, yay! I'm playing Monopoly with Grandma!" The little girl ran out of the room, loudly summoning Molly.
She unexpectedly remembered Gustav. It had been some time since she'd thought of him, but now the memory of the man had come roaring back for no evident reason.
She remembered him standing on a street corner and smiling at her. He was wearing the blue outfit he liked, the one that he wore with the slim grey tie. His mustache looked perfect, like he'd just gotten a perfect shave. He had that barber back then, what was his name? Emilio.
Lord, he looked young. Everything looked vivid. She felt herself drifting off, eyes closed, and the vision of the first man she'd ever loved, arguably the only man she'd ever really loved, became increasingly clear.
"Bella," he said.
"You look like an apparition. A fairy princess, like in those stories. Why do you even look at me, when you can have the world?"
She grinned. She wasn't wearing anything special: a long brown skirt, a white blouse, her brown clogs, a big brown bow in her hair.
"Don't be silly, Gustav. Where are we going today?"
He offered his arm and she took it. "We have a pending trip. It's been pending for a long time, and now we're taking it. We're going to walk all the way up to the Lighthouse, and we're going to have a picnic. It's all been prepared. This is my surprise for you."
"A picnic on Lighthouse Hill? That sounds wonderful," she exclaimed. She knew that this had been long pending, but couldn't quite recall why. Surely he hadn't waited more than a week or two to get things ready and for the weather to be just right. It was late summer, after all. Low on clouds, high on pleasant sunshine.
"Grandma!" she heard distantly. "Let's play. Grandma?" She felt something on her hand, but there was nothing there. She continued walking, delighted with her life and plan for the day, and squeezed a little closer to Gustav.
"Ms. Bella?" she heard. She knew the voice. It was a voice that tired her. She didn't want to listen to it. And it was far. The two voices called for her, but she figured it to be her imagination.
"Look!" Exclaimed Gustav. "They've done it again: Christmas decorations in the summer. Do you suppose they sell? It's mad!" He laughed that laugh of his that she'd fallen in love with. The way he'd tilt his head back, and his mouth would open wide, and his eyes would close a little, and he would let out a genuine expression of mirth that most men in the world could only hope to imitate. His was real. And he was hers.
"Look at the snowglobe," she said. "It's beautiful."
They stopped and peered at it through the window, and in it she saw a house, a house she was distantly familiar with. The detail was incredible. Before she could wonder about it too closely, however, there came a flurry of snow, and what they saw after it was a big building. She saw sleek vehicles with red crosses: ambulances, but not normal ones.
"It's wonderful, Gustav," she said. "But I don't like this. I want to see the house again."
He responded nothing, but snow came again, and then it was the house, and then it was the room. There was an old woman on a bed, and there was a child being removed, and a couple of adults, and the adults were in great state excitement.
"Can you hear them?" she asked Gustav. She saw the room from up close, as if she were almost in it, and there was wailing, and a girl crying, and there were voices yelling for Grandma, and for Mother, and for Ms. Bella, and she knew the voices, but she didn't like them.
"Let's continue," she said looking at him, but his face was in shadow.
"Gustav? Let's continue." She tugged at his sleeve, and focused on him, and on a whim rubbed her nose on his shoulder, as she had many times, and gripped him hard, and when she pulled back he had returned, and they were walking up the street, and the memory of the voices became distant and they sounded no more.
"What was that? That was no good. It scared me."
"What did?" he asked. "There's nothing scary about this day. It's our day."
"And how long will it last? It's only a day."
"It can last as long as we wish it to. It can go as long as you like. You wanted it. It's yours."
"And the picnic?" She looked at him, and the mischievous glint in his eyes made her love him an inch more.
"The picnic is where we are going. Look," he said, and showed his other hand and it held a picnic basket, and it looked quite full, and she spied a bottle peeking out from under one of the flaps.
"Will we have spreads?" she asked.
"Three different spreads. And I've found, if you care for it, a little bottle of spicy oil, just a small one, in case you'd like to try that again."
She stopped walking and looked at him.
"Did we do well, Gustav? Did I do well?"
He took her hands in his. The picnic basket was gone, but she didn't care. She only cared about him, about his kind eyes, and about what he was going to say next.
"You did as best you could, and that's better than most people could ever hope to do. I love you, my Bella. You earned this kiss."
He gave her a soft kiss on the forehead, and it all faded to a tender whiteness, and she knew bliss.

[Author's notes: I think I'm getting a bit of a cold, so I opened with a bit of a morbid line. I ended up smiling while I wrote this one, though. It was sweet.]
