30 Minutes Human # 00085
Mountain, View, Realization, Plantations, Coastline
December 8, 2025

From the top of the 'mountain' they could see everything. The docks, the river, the boats, the scattered houses by the plantations.
"It's a lot smaller than it feels, isn't it?" asked Sheri.
"Yeah. It's a whole world down there, but only just a speck. Look around, look at everything that's actually everything." Mans stretched his arm out and turned in a slow circle, and Sheri followed what he showed.
The ocean on the horizon was as it had always been: eternal, all the way to the end of the world. It looked no different here than it did from the shore.
The difference emerged as they started to turn. The coast stretched on, fairly straight, for a long distance; but far away, just before the eye could no longer capture sufficient detail, it swung north. There were two other plantations along that coast: one was the Onssa plantation, of course, but the other... Sheri realized that she'd never even been that far.
She'd heard of other plantations, of course. The one owned by Jags, the Nel one, the plantation that had burned to the ground before she'd been born, the Noffi plantation. And, of course, the Gris estate, thought that was nearer by. To see it all laid out like this, like a scattering of blocks on an endless green and blue blanket, gave her a perspective that opened her eyes. A perspective she'd come to regret.
A gull cried overhead, and they glanced up. There were two of them, two birds, and as they circled they wheeled higher and higher, until they ultimately determined that they would head west, and so they soared. Sheri was startled by the realization that they saw the world like this every day. Small wonder birds didn't think much of humans.
She returned to the view before her. Mans continued turning left, and they came to the mountain. The real mountain, not the large hill they were standing on. Mans held still there and lowered his arm as they gazed at it.
"I knew the mountain was enormous, but never like this," she said. "It looks almost as tall as it did from between the rows, but the rows from here look like thin lines on a small square of land."
Its peak, unlike most of its slopes, was barren. Its jagged tip thrust up into the air, a dark forbidding blue dagger spearing toward the clouds.
"Do you think Alejo has actually been up there?" she asked. "To the top?"
"I don't know. I don't know that you can really get to the top." It resembled the end of a harpoon spear, with a longer point and a shorter one separated by a cleft. "I'm not sure what the top is. He says it's cold and that you can't see much because of the clouds, but the clouds aren't that low."
"Sometimes they are," she said. She liked to gaze up at it from below, and knew the mountain in any number of moods. "A couple of times I saw them resting on it."
He didn't respond. Mans didn't like to be argued with when he was pontificating, but Sheri had finally accepted his invitation to climb, so he'd go easy on her today. He wanted them all to more clearly see what their world was and wasn't, and knew that Sheri would tell the rest of them all about it upon returning.
"Let's turn back to the right, and leave inland for last," he said. He raised his arm again as now he turned clockwise, pointed at the distant sea, and then turned to the western coast.
This one differed from the more constant one to the east. Not too far down the line, after what she knew to be the Jags and Nel plantations, the coast broke off into a series of islands dotting relatively shallow water. She'd never thought much about it, but now realized she'd assumed that the islands went on indefinitely. 
They didn't. She saw that the land eventually picked up again and continued west. She also saw that the unbroken coastline didn't end, but simply sank into a pocket, then popped back out again. The islands lay in that pocket.
The world was enormous.
"Did you know, the first time you came up here?"
"Yes," he lied. Then he changed his mind. "No, that's not true. I learned from up here as you are. The islands are just a corner, they're not the indefinite borderland we've been led to believe."
"Why do..." her question died on her lips because she didn't know what to ask. "Why?"
"I don't know, Sher. I guess we're easier to lead, to manage. To control. Maybe. Yeah."
"So the islanders aren't as numerous as they claim," she said. "Maybe that's why they're always laughing," she added with a bitter hint to her voice. "They think we're fools for believing them.
"Perhaps. Or perhaps they're happy because they're free. Or happy because they're not us, or happy because for that one moment they think they're better. We don't actually know them."
She nodded. "Let's see inland."
Sheri had consciously avoided looking to the north, but now they turned toward it, and the view dazzled her. After passing the mountain, the river lazily wove an uneven ribbon toward a distant mountain chain and was eventually lost from view upon entering a forest she'd never imagined existed. A few plantations were nearby, and the estate sat at the foot of the mountain, but she didn't know the names of anything beyond it. It had always been forbidden territory, and now she realized that she'd kept even her own mind from venturing there.
'Control,' Mans had said. There was definitely some truth to that.
"Look at all those plantations and estates inland," she said. "We were always told that they only existed on the coast, but it's a lie."
"We've been taken for fools," he said. She didn't know that he was quoting his uncle, Selleh, who had never been happy with their condition on the plantation.

[Author's notes: This one was soothing to write. The names are tough sometimes, when I don't want to rely on the names of any of our regions or languages, but I think this went well enough. /// Editing notes: They were always yucca plantations in my mind, but that never made it into the text.]
