30 Minutes Human # 00087
English Teacher, Bad Essay, Reminiscence, Cartography, Students
December 11, 2025

'Why the bottle hadn't fallen again was a valid question, but nobody was really asking it.
What was on people's minds was why they weren't able to drop their eyeballs.'
"What?" Ernie was so befuddled by what he'd just read that he exclaimed the word out loud. He dropped the paper on his desk, stretched his upper body with his arms high above, and sent the tips of his toes as far as they might go.
He stood up, lazily stretched again, and looked around the study. That had been a bit much. He needed to get a snack, walk around the kitchen, maybe look out the window and wonder, for more than a moment, why he'd gotten into eight-grade English in the first place.
The cat was sitting on the stairs, and as he stepped over it for the umpteenth time, he wondered if this was what would eventually do him in. A step poorly taken, or shadows that rendered Matchbox invisible, and down he'd go, and he'd break his neck on the landing, and that would be the end of it.
Not this time, though. This time he made it to the fridge and got a snack. Some cheese, maybe. And a sausage. Eaten separately, because it wasn't a day to get crazy. And the window at dusk. That would be nice.
A few minutes later, as he munched on the first bit of cheese, the sausage already done for, he distantly noted that he'd missed his favorite moment of dusk. It was a bit too dark now, as although he could see the silhouettes of the pine trees a short distance away, their color was no longer identifiable.
'Drop their eyeballs.' He knew what Mark meant, but the entire scenario was so ludicrous, and the sentence and vocab choices so absurd, that most of him wanted to tell the kid that he should focus on either math or hockey.
This was probably why English teachers always did their grading at home. Some of the work they received was so brain-meltingly bad that, were the guilty party at arm's reach, violence might on occasion take place.
Nancy crossed his mind. She did so sometimes, when he thought back to school, to being at the other side of the desk, to his studies that had brought him here.
"If all else fails, you can always be a geography teacher," she'd say. It had never been funny, and she knew it—not because it was dark or offensive, but simply because it was unfunny. But she was generally spot on with her slightly cruel, slightly sarcastic, always clever humor, so he'd never teased her about the line.
Eventually he'd realized that she'd never meant it as a joke, but as a prediction of the future—or the lack of a prediction of the future. Maybe she realized that cartography was going to become a thing of the past, and that's perhaps the very reason she'd studied it in the first place. 
Then came the internet. The normal internet, not the one that you carried around in your pocket, but that was enough. Nobody needed to memorize locations, or relative positions, or capital lists, or what river flowed by what mountain, or anything of that sort any longer. Geography education went out the window. And the possible geography teacher that he could always be became the possible geography teacher that he would never be.
He wasn't worried about it at the time. He had his job at the institute, and hand-drafted maps still carried a premium. But even he, with his eternal optimism and his refusal to look at what was actually going on in the world (God forbid) couldn't ignore that demand for his skills was shrinking every month. Machines did the maps "well enough". And, hell, sometimes they were more accurate, particularly as the technology improved.
He remembered Nancy then as well. "If all else fails, you can always be a geography teacher." That possibility was shot, but the thought of being a teacher appealed to him. He'd always thought (and been told) that he had the personality for it, and he liked kids. He remembered his own middle school years fondly, knew that it was an age for wonderful discovery. That it was a place where you could lose your path, or it was a place where you could formalize it; where you could discover an interest in yourself.
He'd always been a book nerd. Old books, new books, adventure books, biographies. Languages were never his thing, but the English he'd been raised with sufficed; more than enough had been written in the language of the bard.
He'd applied, on a whim, to be a substitute teacher at Bailey MS, and as it turned out they were desperate to find somebody who'd accept their eight grade English class. The syllabus had been terribly thought out by the district, and both the kids and the parents absolutely hated the books that they'd been assigned. No teacher wanted that mess.
But he'd seen it as a way in, and had applied for the job. He gave vague answers to his questions about his experience—never lying, either bending around the truth or simply not stating certain things, and he'd been hired. For a while he'd wondered when they'd come to take him away perhaps with the police in tow, but it had never happened. And when he'd applied to his current job, which he'd now had for eight years, and simply listed his experience as Bailey MS and offered references there, that had sufficed.
Now he'd been a middle school English teacher for a decade. Somehow. He could still draw a map, and sometimes did it for fun, but nobody cared anymore. At least he'd read the tea leaves properly.
But. He was tired. Kids cared less and less about reading. Even movies were becoming old-fashioned; they liked short-form content that they could watch on their beds or on the go. They didn't care about writing or reading, not properly at least, and it was increasingly likely that they were skillsets the world would never require of them. The world had changed dramatically over the prior couple of decades.
The reason he'd stayed in was for the exceptions. The ~10% of kids who cared, who had the ambition to rise above the foam and really make something of themselves; kids who knew that they'd have to learn to read, and learn to write, and do them both well if they wanted to stand out among the similarly high-potentialed in a world with a sharply-decreasing number of options.
There weren't any of those this year, however. Ernie had never had a year without a single one, but that had finally come to an end with the current crop.

[Author's notes: I had to interrupt this one a couple of times, and for relatively long conversations (7-15 minutes). I'm also sleepy because of a potato-heavy lunch. If you were wondering, yes, the first two sentences were originally written as the first two lines of this new entry, but they were so bad that I had to cheat by backtracking and adding in the quotation mark, thus giving myself a new avenue for the story.]
