30 Minutes Human # 00086
Infidelity, Confrontation, Confession, Interrogation, Fury
December 10, 2025

"Why won't you just fucking tell me the truth?!"
Her scream was so loud that the neighbors across the street and one level up heard it.
"Why do you insist on pretending that I'm some sort of stupid bimbo who can't read the fucking writing on the wall? Tell me, you piece of shit!"
She looked around for something to throw at him, but the only viable object was his alarm clock, and it was plugged into the wall. Subconscious sense, more than reason, told her that it wouldn't work.
"Fuck!!!!"
He stood at the other side of the room, the bed between them. She'd never thrown anything before, but he knew her to be strong and to have good aim, so although he was standing at ease, he was taut and ready to duck or sidestep.
"Say something!! Confirm it, just say it, you motherfucker!!"
Why didn't he? Why didn't he just come out with it? It would be easier, it would end this stupid charade. But the leap remained off-putting.
"Angela, you need to—"
"I need to? I need to?? Are you shitting me? I'm the one who needs to do something? You know, you're fucking right. I am the one who needs to do something. I'm gonna do it right now. Fuck this. Fuck this! I'm done."
She opened the closet, pulled out the big hiking backpack, and plucked a few shirts, a couple of pants, some socks, underwear, and a jacket out, and stuffed them all in the bag. Then she stormed past him—he leaned aside to make way—and gathered some basic toiletries.
She was getting what she needed, he noticed. This wasn't a tantrum, and it's not like she was prone to those. She was actually leaving.
Her next stop was her bedside table drawer. Basic IDs, her checkbook for some reason, and she was out of the room.
Shit. She was actually, really leaving. He followed her to the front door, where they kept the shoes.
"Angela. Stop wait. Stop. Don't do this. Sit down. Let's talk. Put that down, come to the couch, let's talk."
She ignored him for a moment and pulled a couple of pairs of shoes from the hanger-holder. She placed one in the backpack and closed it. Then she sat down to lace up her sneakers. Always a methodical one, his wife.
"Angela. Come on." He stood before her with his hands in his pockets. The notion that he was a goddamn idiot flashed through his head.
Halfway through the first knot on her left shoe she looked up, her hands frozen in place. She looked at him dead in the eye, and he realized that this was the end of the line.
"Tell me, right now. Or I'm out the door. And you won't ever see me in this apartment again."
He broke. Something in him, perhaps something quasi-physically placed between his lungs and his spinal column, snapped. He confessed.
"Yes. Fine. It's true."
A mixture of anger and sorrow—though mostly anger—further fell upon her features.
"Who."
"Nannie. From work. The back-office girl."
"How long?" She stood slowly, one shoe on, half-tied, her eyes never leaving his.
He figured that he should be truthful on this one. "Three months. Maybe four. It's casual." Dully, he added, "I think."
"You think. Right. Where do you fuck her?"
Another voice in the back of his head misinterpreted the question and snickered. He pretended the voice wasn't there.
"Her place, generally. A hotel sometimes. A cheap one nearby."
"How many times here?"
"Never," he lied, and wondered if she could tell.
"Bullshit."
"It's true. That would be stupid. And disrespectful."
'Damn right, Nestor,' he thought.
"Why? Why do you do this? What the fuck? What the fuck, what the fuck, why? I've given you everything, I've been all yours."
Anger was still winning the battle, but sorrow was gaining. She felt her eyes begin to tear up. She wondered if that would be a sign of weakness, then decided that it wasn't. 'It's okay to cry, as long as you don't cry like a bitch.'
"I wanted to fuck someone else. The variety. I needed it, Angela. This isn't about us."
"Not about us?! You're really fucking something, Nes. Tell me about how you kiss her. Do you give her gifts? Do you think of me when you're with her? Do you have a toothbrush at her house?! Do you have a fucking toothbrush!!?!" Her voice rose with this last question, and the neighbors across the street wondered about their argument.
"I... what? No. Angela. Sit down. Come to the living room. Please. Let's talk. This both is and isn't what you think it is."
"I'm standing right here, you piece of shit. With my right shoe in my hand and my backpack by the door, and you're gonna tell me fucking everything. But first you're going to answer my question: do you have a fucking fucking toothbrush at her house?"
He did. He didn't see what difference it made. But he knew that there was no right answer to this question, so he said nothing.
"You know what? We're going over there. Right now."
"Where? He asked, going from confused to alarmed in the span of a single syllable.
"To her house. Does she know you're married? Do I know this bitch?" She'd taken a step toward him and had a finger in his face.
"To her house? Come on, Ange, let's not..." the rest of the words died in his throat as he saw the look in her eyes. That path was best not tread at all.
"Yes, of course she knows I'm married. I've never hidden it, not from her, not from anybody at the company."
"Back office—who's her boss, Marta? Is this the little chick Marta had around the other day?"
"That's the one," he nodded. Alea jacta est.
"We're going. Right the fuck now." She sat down again and finished with her shoes, then pulled the puffy tan jacket from the hook.
"Put your shoes on. Or don't, I don't care. But we're going to this bitch's house, right now."
"Let's not do this, Angela, it's not her fault, it's not..."
"Right. The fuck it isn't. Now, Nestor." She paused for a thought, then added, "I'm walking out this door. I'm either walking out permanently, or I'm walking out with you to go see—what's her name? Nanny?"
"Nannie."
"Choose. Now."
He sighed, put his sneakers on, and grabbed any jacket off the hook. Then he followed her out.
* * *
She stormed out of the building and took a right. His directions hadn't left much to the imagination: take a right, subway, change lines, more subway, get off by Nobb's Café, and it was right there. She didn't need to talk to him on the way over, so she didn't.
As they walked and rode he contemplated the situation, almost having a semi-out-of-body experience and looking at this from a third-party perspective. This was real, this was happening. Worst case scenario, he'd lose both his job and his marriage within a few hours of each other. There was no going back, no Ctrl-Z, no reloading a file, no watching the video again. He'd dug himself into this extraordinary hole, and now he had to see it through.
"Angela," he said as they got on the second subway car. "Can we..."
She looked at him, the glint in her eyes so fierce that it silenced him. Distantly, he wondered what was about to happen in Nannie's apartment, and whether other people would get involved.
What if there was somebody else there?
Shit. What if there was somebody else there? Had he ever actually known that he was her only guy?
* * *
Into the building, up two flights of stairs, and she rang the bell. He found that he wanted to take a small step back from her, that any sort of protection would be good.
The door opened.

[Author's notes: This may be the longest, or among the longest, that I've written for 30MH so far. It flowed easily, and the very active symphonic concert I was listening to certainly helped.]
