30 Minutes Human # 00091
Interview, Unique Candidate, Fast Food Experience, Humble, Great Potential
December 17, 2025

"Please have a seat, Esteban." She gestured to the chair across the desk.
He took a seat, spent a few seconds adjusting his position, and made sure to sit straight. He wondered if he should cross his legs or keep both feet on the ground, and if he did the latter, if his feet should be together or with some distance between them.
He had a padfolio that held three copies of his resumé, a pad of paper for note-taking, and a pen. He'd briefly considered getting one with a calculator in it, but that seemed silly, and he'd wondered why they even still sold those.
She had a copy of his resume before her and spent a minute going over it as he sat still. Then she looked up at him, and the merest hint of a smile played on the corner of her mouth.
"This isn't a military court martial, Esteban. You can sit comfortably."
He slumped a fraction, but otherwise stayed as he was.
"Is this your first interview?" she asked.
"No ma'am. Well, yes. The other one doesn't really count."
"What was the other one?"
"When I was 16 my father sat me down with one of his friends. He wanted me to get real work experience, and his friend owned a chicken joint. A fried chicken restaurant. So he interviewed me. Sort of."
"And how was that interview?" This guy was clearly a rookie, but she liked his vibe, so she figured that she could spend a couple of minutes on this anecdote.
"It was very short, ma'am. He asked me if I wanted to work, and I said 'yes'. He asked me if I'd worked before, and I said that I hadn't. And he asked me if I minded getting my hands dirty."
"And you said?"
"I said I didn't." She was about to ask another question when he added, "For a moment I thought he meant like with the mob, you know. But then I figured that it was a chicken joint. So maybe he meant something else. Either way, it didn't feel like I could answer 'yes' to that question and still get the job."
"Right," she said. There was something refreshing about kids who had absolutely no experience in an office setting. "So you got the job?"
"Yes ma'am. I was a janitor. Early morning and late afternoon shift, before and after school."
She thought about asking him if he was paid for that but decided against it.
"So how long were you a janitor for? This isn't in your resumé."
"The advisor in college told me that I shouldn't put that down, that I should focus on my studies and on activities I've done in college."
"I disagree with your advisor. This is important experience."
He nodded. "Yes ma'am. You asked how long; I was a janitor for about eight months. Then a cashier spot opened up and my boss, his name was Jhon, he asked if I wanted it. So I took that."
"Very nice. You were promoted."
"I suppose so, yes ma'am."
"How long were you at the chicken restaurant?"
"Until I graduated from high school. I was assistant shift manager by then."
"That's very impressive, Esteban. How many people worked on those shifts? How many people were you managing?"
"It varies. Between six and eight."
"And what lesson did you take from that?"
"That it's difficult to find a balance between being strict and helping people be happy at their jobs, but that it's a really important balance."
She nodded. She liked this kid. "Esteban, here. Give me your folder. We can put it on the desk. At ease, soldier."
"Yes ma'am," he said, handing it over.
"Rebeca. No more of this ma'am."
"My father says I should always be respectful. Guess how you're raised sticks with you."
"What does your father do?"
"He's a foreman at a machine parts factory. I think he's going to be promoted to Head Foreman soon. I've heard him say it." There was a note of pride to his voice.
"Okay, thanks for that. So you're applying to be a junior back-office clerk. Why?"
"My friend told me that it was a really good job and that this was a really good company. She works here. She helped me pass the resumé filter."
Then he went pale. He was absolutely not supposed to say that; it might've just cost Wanda her job.
"I—I mean..."
"It's alright. We don't get a lot of bad candidates past that filter, so your friend might've seen something in you. What do you think it is?"
Esteban shrugged. "I get good grades. I don't cause trouble with people. I don't do drugs or anything, but I'm not like a shut-in, you know. Maybe she thinks I could do a good job. And maybe she's trying to help me out."
"You do get good grades. And I sense that the rest of what you tell me is true."
She leaned back. She was used to another sort of candidate. Raised in another sort of home, with another perspective on the world. Kids whom she could ask questions like 'Why are you interested in working for Merker & Collie?' and they'd have some sort of canned answer she'd heard a thousand times.
Out of curiosity, she asked it anyway. "Why are you interested in working for Merker & Collie?"
"Initially, because my friend told me about it. I know she's happy. She's a top student, very serious, also, you know, comes from a good family."
"Right," said Rebeca. She was hoping for more, and a moment later she got it.
"Then I investigated you. Like, the company. Merker. You're a very highly regarded firm. You do work with some of the great companies of the world, with the millionaires, with the brands I see every day in stores and on TV. With airlines. I also looked at your alums, people who've worked here, you know, and some people who worked here have gone on to be really very successful.
"So I think I could learn a lot here. Meet some interesting people, people who will go far. Maybe I can go far myself, if I work hard enough and have a bit of luck.
"I can't speak at any level of depth about the deals and structuring that you do. A friend of mine told me that it was better to confess ignorance than to pretend knowledge, and he's right, I know what he means. I hate people who talk like they know but then you dig a little and it all falls apart. So, yeah."
She'd listened to him speak, twiddling a pen between her fingers as she watched him. This kid was authentic, the real deal. The sort that rises. Perhaps. She decided to test the raw stuff.
* * *
They shook hands and he left her office, his padfolio under his arm. She thought about the interview and about other candidates she'd met, then looked down at his resumé again.
The kid was a gem. Not a mental math savant, and not trained in the great problem-solving frameworks that were currently popular, but he had an enormous amount of common sense and was fast with straightforward numbers and with rough reasoning. He also had a keen understanding of people. And he was proud of what he had, apparently the type that saw the goodness of people even if he'd experienced a lot of the opposite.
She touched a couple of buttons on her phone and it beeped in response almost immediately.
"Yeah, Reb. What's up?"
"Just interviewed this kid. You should take a look at him."
"Sure. Send me his CV."
She looked down at it.
"No... can I swing by? This one is better if I share a bit of additional context that isn't really on the document he shared."
"Alright. I have until the top of the hour, come on by."

[Author's notes: I've been doing interviews (on both sides of the table) recently. I've also worked with people like Esteban. They bring a certain something to teams. Wrote it while listening to a 155BPM+ hard techno & neorave mix on YouTube.]
