30 Minutes Human # 00090
Savant, Painter, Hotel, Masterpiece, Identity
December 15, 2025

At age seven he discovered his love of paint.
It was love at first sight: their neighbor had once tried to get into it and failed, and several pails had been forgotten in his attic, unused but well-lidded. Romires, ever the little daredevil, had climbed out through the roof one day and found that he could, if precise, land on the small windowsill of the neighbor's attic. He'd discovered therein a trove of largely abandoned treasures, but the pails under the dirty sheet by the wall had immediately captured the entirety of his imagination, and he'd paid the rest of the items there little heed.
He had started with painting the contents of that attic. Reds, blues, and oranges he had streaked all over the furniture and assorted decorations, and the mixing of different paints to get the very shade he wanted, one of this greatest skills, he had immediately discovered among the musty treasures.
He had never been caught in this early work, but as was bound to happen, the neighbor one night decided to put an out-of-date map away in the attic, and discovered that a mad frenzy of color had invaded over the place. Furious, assuming that a group of vandals or hooligans had broken in and defaced his belongings, he'd cleaned what he could and thrown the rest away.
Untouched, he could've sold the house for millions, if not tens of millions, and it might have become a museum. As it was, it burned down some years later during a thunderstorm, while being rented by a mouse afficionado.
Romires, distraught by his loss, became sullen for a time, and then eventually confessed to his mother. She always doted on him and kept his mischief from his father, and spent a month saving on food to buy the boy his own set of paints and canvas to work on.
All but one of the works he produced during this time were also lost in a fire—a different one, in another city—and it's not a period of his life that Romires spoke of much. His father's tragic death cast a somber shadow on the household, and he spent much of his time first helping his mother around the house and then doing odd jobs to generate a bit of income.
His mother, in the only interview she ever granted, recalls this as a difficult period. What was hardest for her was having to take the boy entirely out of school; she taught the boy to read, but other than that, he had no education.
It was during his time as a bellboy at the Lem Hotel that his talent was discovered. It's a oft-told story, as fascinating for how it went as for the fact that there are at least four well-known versions of it, and there is no knowing which is the more accurate.
What is known for a fact is that George De'Leste was a guest in the hotel's presidential suite for some time, and on a certain occasion Romires found himself in the great artist's room by himself. De'Leste had set an easel up for himself and left a blank canvas on it, his implements laid out and ready to begin work, and had then needed to unexpectedly leave the room for some time.
The love of art is quite a thing, and although he knew it would likely cost him his job, Romires was unable to help himself and attacked the scene before him. It is said that he spent eight hours standing at that easel, entirely absorbed in his work, and was only startled out of it by the explosion of a gas main in a restaurant across the street.
The lad, now sixteen years of age, then thought of his mother and of the fact that they needed money for her medicines. He fled the scene, and his work, now known as the Vava Gaúl remained behind. Luckily for him, it had been a light day at the hotel, and his supervisor had not noted his absence.
The following day Romires showed up to work as if nothing had happened, and nothing did. Versions vary on this, but George De'Leste spent between two and eight days out, and—as he tells it—returned to his room to find it a mess. The hotel staff had strict orders to never touch any of his things and to only perform basic cleaning and tending duties therein, so he furiously went directly to the Hotel Manager's office, demanded an explanation, and made it clear that he would be departing the Lem that very afternoon, never to return.
Upon returning to his room he casually removed the cloth that covered the canvas he thought to be blank, and was startled into silence; not only was it blank, but it now held a masterpiece. He was caught unaware by the power of the Vava Gaúl, and most versions of the story agree that he fainted on the spot, recovered, saw it again, and fainted once more.
A pale George De'Leste returned to the Hotel Manager's office. The man was angrily working to figure out who had been in the artist's room. He quietly took a seat and sat as in a daze until the manager inquired if he was alright.
"I need to know who was in my room," muttered De'Leste.
"It is what I am working on to find out right now, sir. He will not only be dismissed, but we will likely press charges. No, definitely press charges," he added, misinterpreting the curious expression on the other man's face. "I shall like to see this person in jail."
"You are a fool," George De'Leste unfairly told the man. Whomever was in there is the new great master of our time. Find who it was. I will not leave the hotel until you do."
Versions here vary wildly, but it took the hotel manager at least one year, and further incentive from De'Leste, to discover that Romires had been the interloper.
Ultimately, a trap had to be set to identify the culprit. Romires, not realizing or not believing the tone in which he was being sought, would never have voluntarily identified himself. The manager, now offered De'Leste art worth a significant sum, knew precisely who had been in the hotel that day. He knew that the guilty party had not been a guest, for all had been accounted for, and that left only the staff.
It was presented as a contest, a silly game to "gratefully" entertain the hotel staff on a Tuesday afternoon. An easel and canvas were set up in a relatively unused corner of the third kitchen, and the staff were all instructed to gather there.

[Author's notes: I wanted to write part of a biography of somebody, and this is what we got.]
