30 Minutes Human # 00099
Ruthless Politician, Speech, Daughter, Accident, Hospital
December 30, 2025

"When we lose sight of what matters to our children, we lose sight of our future. And when we lose sight of our future, our present loses its relevance."
Applause again, but only because I'd sought it. I'd been hitting the shore with wave after wave of inspiration, what some might refer to as populism, and at this point anything I said, if properly inflected and at least minimally encouraging, made them lose themselves into increasingly powerful blasts of acclamation.
"So let's not pretend that education is a secondary matter, or even one of several important items on a politician's agenda. Education is what makes us transcendent, and we will fund it, because for the good of ourselves, our souls, and those who will follow, there is simply no alternative!!"
Applause, applause. After all these years, I still enjoyed it. I'd been accused of vanity in the past, perhaps of narcissism, and I suppose that wasn't entirely off the mark—not that I'd ever publicly admit to it.
"Thank you all, and have an extraordinary day while we build an extraordinary tomorrow!" Not just applause now, madness. This was their goodbye. For most of them, this might be one of the last moments in which they'd see me in person. I raised my hand and waved at them, and they screamed and yelled and clapped and waved back.
Then I was on my way. The security service received me at the foot of the steps and I followed them around the stage, down a short hallway on the back, and into a waiting armored vehicle.
Jeremy followed me in and the door closed behind him. Unlike the others, I knew that he wouldn't begin with vapid adulation about my performance.
"Your daughter's been in an accident, sir."
I blinked a couple of times, the gears whirring about in my head suddenly stilled and clattering to the floor.
"What?" I shook my head, which was suddenly coated with light cobwebs.
"Annie. She's been in an accident."
"What happened? Where is she?"
"She's at Royal Heights. We can be there in under twenty minutes."
"Yes—what happened?" I felt like everything was moving at one-tenth speed. The car might've been on its way, it might've been stationary. I couldn't tell.
"A truck. A refrigeration truck, for keeping ice cream cold. Looks like the guy had been drinking. Rear-ended her into a parked vehicle."
"How is she?" My voice cracked somewhere between those first and second syllables.
"It's for the doctors to say, but—" he caught a steely glint off my eyes and knew that I wouldn't allow him to dodge the question, "—it's not good, sir. Multiple fractures. Last I heard she was stable, but she's unconscious."
"Who's she with?" I looked out the window at the adoring crowd with their bright uniform color and their excited signs. I saw a couple of faces of guys who might've taken a shot if they felt that it would work and they could get away with it. I couldn't care less about any of that.
"Shelley. Francis Stiff. And Mrs. Addison is probably arriving around now."
"Who was she with when it happened?"
He knew the answer to be a death sentence, but there was a reason Jeremy was increasingly the man sitting next to me.
"Two of Stiff's men."
"Do you have the driver?"
"Yes sir."
"Get Marjorie on the line." It was telling that, despite the circumstances, I would absolutely not be dialing her myself.
He pulled his phone and dialed, then held it before him with speakerphone on. She didn't answer.
"Call Shelley. Or Stiff. Shelley."
He acquiesced. As opposed to my ex-wife, Shelley picked up on the first right.
"Jeremy. Are you with him?"
Before he could respond I took the phone from his hand.
"Put me through to Marjorie."
"Sir."
There was a bit of background chatter, then her voice.
"Philip."
It was a broken voice. Not the voice of the angel I'd fallen for nor the succubus I'd then realized her to be, but a fractured version of neither. Hearing my name spoken like that, under these circumstances, scared me more than anything I'd ever heard or seen.
"Tell me."
"She's not well, Philip."
"I'll be there soon. Maybe... fifteen minutes." No response. "Are you getting everything you need? Is the hospital revolving around you?"
"Yes," she whimpered. "And Drs. Welsham, Stevenson, and Paul are on their way. Via helicopter. But Philip." She was muttering almost unintelligibly. "It's really bad."
"I'll be there soon." Despite everything that had happened, I couldn't bring myself to be cold with her at that moment. I supposed that, at the very bottom of whom I'd become, there was a small torn rag of humanity left.
I hung up and turned to Jeremy.
"Clear the hospital," I said. His eyebrows jumped, so I added, "I don't mean remove everybody. But I want nobody in the hallways, nobody in any adjoining rooms. And all resources are to go to Annie."
He nodded and turned to his phone screen. I spent the following thirteen minutes staring out the window. I was used to waiting, and I'd learned patience, but those minutes felt longer than the entirety of my three campaigns combined.
We pulled up to the hospital and my security team was barely able to position itself before I was out the door and walking to the stairs, where I took the steps two at a time. Two nurses were on the second floor looking at something on a clipboard, and one of them glanced up when I passed. She yelped and dropped the thing on the floor, then pushed her friend out of the way. I continued on my way up.
Annie was in room 412. As requested, there was absolutely nobody in the hallways, save for my men. I went inside.
Shelley, Stiff, and one of his men were standing on the far side of the room, their hands clasped before them. Marjorie was standing by the bed. And the person on the bed I could not recognize.
She was completely bandaged. I could see her nose and one of her eyes, and fingers and some patches of skin poking out between bandages, but that was it. The heartbeat machine was quietly and slowly beeping next to her.
I saw Marjorie Addison as I'd never seen her. The ice queen of the country, the devious force that had manipulated armies into destroying each other and powerful men to take their own lives, looked like something out of a bad television show. A voice in the back of my mind filed the image away for future reference, but I knew that I'd never take advantage of it. This wasn't a moment I ever wanted to celebrate.
"Philip," she blubbed, bent over, her face bloated from tears. "Look."
I looked. I looked carefully. Then I turned my gaze toward Francis Stiff, and in a whisper so poisonous that I barely recognized it, said, "Come with me."

[Author's notes: Two politician pieces in a row. Maybe current events have gotten to my head. The juxtaposition of absolute power with the fragility of a child's wellbeing is interesting. // Editing notes: Curious... I just noticed that his opening speech is about the welfare of children. I don't think I had that in mind when I decided where this story was going early on.]
