30 Minutes Human # 00100
Post-Apocalypse, Survivor, Butte, Long Walk, Acid Rain
December 31, 2025

I was tired of crying. Of feeling sorry for myself and for all of them. It was time to move on.
I stuffed everything in the big backpack until it was about to burst, then removed it all and packed it carefully, folding things, taking advantage of small spaces, just like my mom had taught me. It all fit well, with a bit of room at the top in case I came across anything useful. I hung the frying pan from a strap on the side, because it felt like something that Samwise Gamgee would've done, and his inspiration seemed appropriate.
I looked at the bunker for the last time. I'd not be coming back here. Life had ended here, just about all of it. Then it had begun again, though I didn't know how much life this would really be.
Enough of this place. I turned to leave, then returned and did what I knew I'd do; I gave it all one last check, made sure I hadn't left anything.
The little grey doll with the braided copper hair was under a broken board toward the back. I considered taking it with me, but was flooded with images of characters from popular post-apocalyptic tales, tales like what my life had become, such as The Last of Us, The Road, Max Max. Those tales invariably featured characters petting tchotchkes from their previous lives and feeling sorry for themselves.
That wouldn't be me. Hell no. I put the backpack down and rummaged for another such memento I'd stuffed in toward the bottom, mom's cookbook. I took it out, put it on the floor, and sat the doll on it. This wouldn't be a future in which feeling sorry for myself was a luxury I could afford.
It also wouldn't be a future in which a nice French cuisine cookbook would serve any use at all, and I didn't want to eventually burn it either.
Then I turned and left. I went outside, grabbed a piece of fence I found laying about, covered the opening so it wouldn't be that obvious to anybody (human or otherwise) wandering about, and left.
* * *
I couldn't be the only survivor. Despite the fact that it felt that way sometimes over the past few months, odds against it were overwhelming. There hadn't been anything particularly special about bunker I'd been in, and the circumstances that had taken me to it on that day hadn't been unique either.
Survivors would want to get together, and all things navigational and electronic were permanently out. Maybe compasses would eventually work again, but nothing suggested that that was soon forthcoming. This meant that we only had our eyes and what was purely mechanical to navigate by.
There were no maps, and maps would be irrelevant, because there just about everything man had built had been destroyed and there were no vehicles. Everybody would be walking. Even if one dude happened to know how to use an astrolabe, most of us didn't, and what mattered was where the herd went.
We'd walk toward something we could either all see or that we all knew where to find. And that left two options: the butte and the ocean.
I saw, in a flash, where all of this might go. Some folks would go toward one, some toward the other. Communities might form in each. The two communities would be mutually aware, and eventually come into conflict and vie for control over each other.
I wanted to be on the winning side of that conflict, so despite what my heart suggested, I decided to walk toward the butte. Ocean people wouldn't be the fighters. That was my conclusion, at least; time would tell if I'd chosen wisely.
* * *
I had a long walk ahead of me. It might take days, if not weeks, to get there, but I was in no hurry. It was more important that I arrive safe and healthy than that I arrive quickly. I knew that I'd find food and water on the way, so that wasn't an element of pressure either.
It was probably around noon that I set off. It was tough to tell, given that the color of the sky was not what I'd known throughout my life, but it seemed like an accurate-enough read.
The walk that first day was uneventful. I trudged over the remains of houses, stores, and streets, of occasional buildings, of vehicles. I passed the occasional remains of dogs and cats—birds I saw none—but other than that, I was alone.
By the time the sun set, I knew that I'd made the right decision in terms of footwear. Anything but sneakers, or perhaps hiking boots would've been suicide. I thought that then and there I might discard the hard leather shoes in my pack to make room for more things, to reduce the weight on my back, and to mitigate the possibility that I might one day be tempted to wear them, but ultimately left them in there. They might be good to trade for.
That night I slept in the remains of a fireplace. It was an old stone fireplace, the sturdy sort, and I saw that some of the structure remained vertical. I prodded at it from a few different angles, found it stable enough, and made a rough bunk beneath it. That night I was not disturbed.
The following day it rained, and I realized that the rain, despite having mellowed over the past several months, still carried some risk. As soon as it began to drizzle I put on the heavy plastic poncho, but within half an hour saw that the water was eating away at it; the plastic felt simultaneously slimy and rough.
Rain could be the end of me. I panicked for a moment, decided that panic would do me no favors, and looked around carefully.
I remembered the old meme of the bullet holes on the WWII airplanes. What remained had to be what was unaffected by rain. That meant stone. It meant wood. It meant... some metal? I'd seen some metal frames, and the undersides of some vehicles, but chassis and lampposts were gone. Glass could also work, but most glass was broken.
Plastic was a no-go, evidently. No form of it, apparently; I couldn't recall having seen any of it since I'd arrived.
I returned to the undercarriage idea. A few blocks back I'd seen the lower remains of what was apparently an old sedan, and they seemed to be in one piece. I made my way back, avoiding the urge to run—a sprained ankle could be the end of me—and found it.
It looked heavy, but I was in good shape and had solid gloves. I pulled up the side of it and propped it up on a tall bit of sidewalk, making a sort of bivouac for myself, and crept under it. No water on me here. Then I waited for the rain to stop.
* * *
I must've fallen fast asleep, because when I came to the rain had stopped, but it was pitch dark. I crawled out from under the remains of what might've been a decades-old Ford and looked around. It was unusually dark, but not ominously so. I suspected that one who'd lost their night vision because of a bright light would momentarily be quite unable to move about, and stored that observation away for future use.
I put my backpack on and started off again. I thought of the soles of my shoes—if plastic didn't agree with this rain, would they survive? They looked well though, though, and then I thought of the occasional car tires I'd seen laying about. Maybe rubber didn't suffer under the corrosion of those chemicals.

[Author's notes: That makes 100. Wrote this one while listening to a The Killers playlist. This could make a fun series; how she makes it to the mountain, a community is formed, the relationship with the coast, maybe the rise of her as a post-apocalyptic leader (a good one or a ruthless one, though?).]
