30 Minutes Human # 00089
Hotel Lobby Restroom, Eavesdropping, Smoking, Family Drama
December 8, 2025

So I was sitting there, leaning forward with my forearms on my legs, when I heard the door open. I'd already finished most of the deed, so I knew there wouldn't be any embarrassing noise coming from my stall. Having nothing better to do—my phone was in my jacket pocket, hanging from my seat elsewhere—I listened to this new entrant.
We've all heard people enter a public restroom. Others might dispute the point, but this restroom was certainly public: an out-of-view doorway under a staircase in a fancy hotel lobby allowed anybody off the street if they knew how to act like they belonged. I could thus make no assumptions about who'd just walked in.
They washed their hands first. Water on full blast, then the squeaking of the soap dispenser, then more water. Perhaps somebody who'd been eating a hamburger with fries and used their fingers, I thought. A valid hypothesis, but there were many other ways to get your hands dirty. Or maybe not even really dirty, but just with the perception of 'unclean', such as by shaking hands whose hygiene is dubious.
After he washed his hands I saw two possibilities: he'd either leave (I'd concluded that it was a man, since this was a men's room and I hadn't heard anything to suggest otherwise) or use the facilities. I'd done it often enough myself: sometimes you need to pee but don't want to touch your equipment with unclean hands. A fair and frequent concern. So maybe this guy was washing, peeing (or otherwise), and then washing again.
I was wrong on all accounts. There was no movement for a moment, and then I heard the unmistakable sound of a lighter sparking up. Cheeky. Smoking in the restroom reminded me of middle school. I smelled the smoke and knew that it was just a cigarette, and this was for the best; I couldn't quite return to the group smelling of a hotbox.
I wondered at the guy's temerity. There was obviously somebody in my stall; all the stalls were empty (or at least open-doored) when I'd walked in, but now mine was closed, and the door didn't go to the floor. A reckless daredevil, this one, public-smoking in an occupied restroom.
My assumption was that he was on his phone while he smoked. Although I didn't have mine then, it was natural to assume, in this day and age, that everybody has their device constantly glued to their hand. There wasn't much identifiable sound coming from him, so I just sat there and smelled cigarette smoke.
The door opened again.
"Dude. You alright?"
"Yeah."
"You're smoking in the bathroom like a middle-schooler." Bingo.
I imagined the smoker shrugging. "Yeah."
"Come on, you gotta go out there. Say hello to this guy."
It crossed my mind that I was going to smell of cigarette when I returned, and though it was better than a hotbox, it wasn't by much. Either explanation I wouldn't want to give, regardless.
"Biff."
Biff the smoker. Noted.
"What."
"Come on. It's going to look bad if you just stand up and leave after they arrive. You gotta face this."
"Why?"
"For fuck's sake."
Biff's friend, whom I dubbed 'George', sighed hard and left the restroom, almost certainly by himself.
Biff resumed silent consumption of his smoke, and I sat there, listening. At that point I could've started wiping, but I was wondering if anything else was going to happen. I believe that one must have a healthy appetite for strangers' gossip.
After a couple of minutes I heard the lighter spark for a second time, and immediately afterwards the door opened again.
"Dude. Come the fuck on."
"I'm smoking a cigarette."
"That's a brand new one. You're smoking another cigarette. And you probably have a pack in your pocket."
"Maybe I just want to smoke cigarettes right now."
"In the bathroom? Like some rebellious kid? Come on, dude. You're 48." Wow. Dude certainly didn't sound 48. I hypothesized that Biff hadn't been smoking too long, because his voice was fine and young.
"Dude. Leave me the fuck alone. What..."
"What do I care? Your favorite question? You should see the look on Mom's face right now. She's sitting there, heartbroken, with this dude next to her. Show at least a minimum number of fucks given."
"Fuck you, man. Martin. Fucking Martin. Fuck you." Each syllable more punctuated than the last. Martin. Marty. Biff. Fascinating.
There was a moment of silence, and I wondered if Martin would attack Biff, physically remove his cigarette, something. Instead, he left the restroom again, and Biff continued smoking in silence.
I started wiping. As quietly as I could, of course, because I didn't want to disturb the show, but I didn't want to sit there all day, either. You know what they say about hemorrhoids. I was just about to be done with that and pull my pants up when I heard a light knock on the door.
"Biff? You there?" It was a woman's voice, older. Maybe in her 70s. The mother of the two of them, I deduced. Perhaps I wouldn't go anywhere immediately. "Biff?"
The door opened, and I wondered at how conveniently squeaky it was at so posh an establishment.
"Biff?" Then there was silence, and I imagined that they were looking at each other. Perhaps the mother, whom I'll dub 'Barb' (not on theme, but so what?), was glancing at the door to my stall, weighing what she should say. I was now a character in this tale. How exciting. I was now also fully wiped.
"Come on, sweetheart. Don't do this. Please." Her voice cracked, and I thought that the cigarette smoke and the smell of my poop, which continued to lie beneath me, couldn't be combining into anything pleasant for this woman. A mother's love, I suppose.
"Do what, Mom?" A beat, then, "You know, it doesn't even make sense to play this game. I'm going to go, I'm leaving. Fuck all of this."
"Come on, Biffy." She was apparently trying to keep it together, probably to not return to the man in question with evidence of tears on her face.
"No, Mom. I don't know why I agreed to this." He paused, then went for it. "He raped dad. Fuck that. I don't know how you can... no, Mom. Fuck that." When he'd paused, he'd almost certainly looked at my stall. I was definitely a character in this now.
"That was a long time ago, he's a different man. I've told you this. Or tried to. You don't listen. But a lot of life has passed, come on, Biff. At least give him a chance."
I leaned forward, tripped the damn sensor, and the toilet flushed. The spell broke. Biff crossed the restroom and left, and the door swung to a close.

[Author's notes: Hotel lobby restrooms are like airports. Liminal spaces.]
