30 Minutes Human # 00093
Planetary Explorer, Dangerous Expedition, Rover, Cave, Solo
December 21, 2025

Anishe, the moon above Clarox, was blue. It looked enormous from where she stood, but she knew that this was likely a consequence of the humidity in the atmosphere and the way the light bent through it. Anishe was not much bigger than the Terran moon, but it hung a bit closer to the planet's surface.
She got back in the rover and drove toward the triple peak in the distance. It was as she'd expected, as it had been described: three peaks poking out of the flat ground, lower shelves connecting them. Some described them as spires, some as fingers.
She was in a hurry, and a bit anxious about her mission, so she played soothing sounds to ease her mind. She'd always liked the sound of popping bubbles; she imagined them floating about her, some bigger, some small.
They popped unseen and she drove on. The Nerds on the ship had offered her a companion bot, but she'd passed on the offer. She'd been raised to be distrustful of non-human life, and although she'd left—more like been removed—from her house at the age of eight, some of the lessons you learn as a young lass stay with you forever.
No bots. She'd rather be alone with her thoughts, the Clarian landscape, and the bubbles.
Her 'dar beeped. There was contact up and to her left. She had it set on voiceless, so she had to trigger the display on the wheel, but the distraction wasn't a risk. There was nothing to run into here, save for perhaps a medium-sized boulder or two that might jar her out of her reverie if she happened to run over it.
The contact was far, many miles away, miles above and miles at a straight run. She looked toward it and saw that it was flying, a winged thing with a tail, lazily circling. She revised her assessment: it might be far, and if it was far it was colossal. If it was closer, which it might be, its size would be less of a concern.
She turned the display off because she'd rather not know, but immediately toggled it back on. She'd be a damn fool if she didn't find out.
It was big. It was damn big, because it was damn far, and she could clearly see its wings and its tail. She wondered if it was a herbivore or a problem, but then concluded that wondering without having a way to know would be worse than putting it out of her mind.
"Dris esta col-cosni strauv," she told the display. It spent a few seconds performing the scan, and then confirmed that there was only one such contact anywhere nearby. She told it to let her know if any more arose, and then made herself withdraw back to the bubbles and turn her eyes back to the spires. She had better things to worry about than a distant dragon-beast that may or may not be able to swallow her and the rover without having to chew.
* * *
She arrived at the base of the triple formation a couple of hours later. The flying beast had not come any closer, but remained circling what might be a target, or a nest, or sustenance for her kind, or any of another number of possibilities. It didn't pose a threat, but she couldn't say the same for what she might find in this place.
She locked the vehicle with her biometrics. It would take a bit of time to start it later, but she didn't want to run the risk of some unknown party emerging from a hole in this barren world and taking her unattended vehicle for a joyride, leaving her indefinitely stranded.
She'd heard a story about such a thing happening once. It might've been apocryphal, but it didn't hurt to be cautious. She stepped back, triggered the display, and said, "Nivira ay ay nalaka. Ten ta." Then she thought the better of it and said, "Ten shlids." If it came to an intruder, she didn't give a crap who else might hear the thing. She had to know immediately.
Then she did as she'd been trained: she checked her oxygen, her ammunition, the integrity of her suit, her comms link, and that her food and water packs were safely stored. Then she clipped the small brown satchel to her suit—the entire expedition revolved around that satchel—and set off.
The cave entrance was where she was told it would be. It was about human-sized, and nothing indicated that any other type of creature worth mentioning had been through there. She wasn't a tracker and her visu wasn't trained for tracking, however, so she knew that this meant nothing.
As she approached the mouth of the cave she realized that she hadn't notified the Nerds of her arrival. She should've, but then again, the protection settings she'd activated could be remotely viewed. If they were wondering about her, it would be easy enough to know that she was there, easy enough to know that she was on it.
There was a flashlight on the floor, right at the threshold of the entrance. She stared at it for a long moment, then picked it up. She'd seen them, and indeed been trained on them, as a last resort, if all technology failed. But its presence here was alarming. Flashlights were valuable when they were widely used, so the fact that one should lie here suggested that there had once been trouble where she stood.
The fact that flashlights had gone out of vogue perhaps 230 years earlier didn't assuage her concerns one iota. The hazards that might present themselves on this trek to Clarox had lifespans far greater than what humans were set up to experience.
The flashlight worked. She'd never seen that particular model before, but these weren't particularly complex gadgets, so turning it on wasn't a mystery. There was no downside to bringing it along, so she slotted it into her belt and moved inside.
There was more echo within than she'd anticipated. She knew that an enwar nest was low on reverberation, and thus sound didn't move within it as it would in a normal space, but here it did.
She'd never been in an enwar nest before, but the simulation had given her a clear idea of what to expect, and this wasn't it. The more she moved inside, the deeper she went, the less signs she saw of this being anything less than a hole in the wall. Eventually she hit the end. Its surface was odd, more corrugated and colder to the touch, but this didn't surprise her. The minerals under the spires were said to produce rock rarely seen elsewhere in that galaxy.
She left the cave again. It was empty—there was no enwar there, and there likely had never been. She went outside the spire, stepped some distance away, and looked back. It was the only cave, and it was where both maps had shown that it would be. The maps and diagrams alike. That had to be the one, it was the only one.
The flashlight. There were old stories about explorers of prior ages making discoveries thanks to the casting of light, and although those discoveries often posed significant hazards to the explorers, those that survived sometimes reported legendary success.
She went back inside, stood in the middle of the space, and turned the flashlight on, aimed toward the back. Light shone on the far wall—and the wall immediately, at enormous speed, slid to the side. After a couple of seconds of this, the wall was gone.
It hadn't been a wall at all. And there was nothing erstwhile about this erstwhile enwar nest.

[Author's notes: Wrote this one while listening to some sci-fi synthwave. I like the way it turned out, good mood—and that's despite a couple of distractions. // Editing notes: I wrote this shortly after finishing a Jack Reacher novel, and I think it shows.]
