30 Minutes Human # 00095
Forest, Young Vixen, Little Turtle, Unlikely Friendship
December 24, 2025

It was shortly after the new year that the little turtle first saw the vixen.
She was young then, no more than a few weeks old, but he thought her to be the most beautiful creature he'd ever seen. She was strolling about with her mother, likely returning from a fresh meal, for her snout was a bit wet and spotted with traces of pink.
He was on one side of a small pond and they passed by on the other. Neither fox saw the turtle, and he preferred it that way, because he knew the risks of predators, no matter how alluring.
A month or two passed before he saw the vixen again. This time she was playfully leaping up at a bluebird that, apparently having nothing better to do, insisted on sitting on a branch that she could almost reach with her leaps and hops.
He spent a while watching her, and she never tired of it: preparing her pounce, waiting for the right moment, springing into the air... and missing, of course. The bluebird was never at risk.
The following time she saw him as well. He was balancing on a log whose summit he'd reached after much adventure, and the vixen walked by, apparently searching for something. She laid her eyes on the turtle, and he froze, staring back at her. He knew the danger but was fascinated by her.
She approached and sniffed at him, and he trembled a bit with emotion. He knew that it would be an even race between a bite of hers and his retraction into the shell, but he didn't want to hide from her just yet.
She appeared puzzled, but before she could decide on her next move, something rustled in the shrubbery and ran across the open space that lay next to them. This captured her attention instantly and she went after it—but not before a quick look back at the turtle that he thought back on for many days afterward.
He was marching around a puddle some time later when what might've been a dog came upon him and started barking, sniffing, and licking at him. The dog seemed hungry and this scared him, so he retreated into the safety of his shell, comfortably tucked in until the danger passed.
The danger didn't pass, however. The dog stuck around, poking at the shell, prodding it with its paw until it eventually turned him over. The turtle was on its back now, and when he decided that the dog no longer presented a threat, he found that he was unable to flip over again.
It is a great risk for turtles to find themselves upside-down, though unfortunately this is a lesson rarely passed from mothers to their offspring. The little turtle flailed his legs toward the sky, his head quickly starting to droop up toward the ground. He felt unwell, and his flails started to lose vigor.
The vixen happened by. She saw the turtle, approached, and recognized the scent. She recognized a meal, she recognized fear, but she also knew the curious look in the smaller creature's eyes, and recognized him.
She was intelligent, and quickly grasped the peril the other was in. With a nudge from her snout she turned the turtle over and then sat to regard it with a tilted head.
The turtle passed from panic to sudden brief terror as he found himself flipped over and immediately hid, but after a little while he poked his head out to see if the source of his concern had departed and saw the vixen there, still in her spot, still watching him.
They regarded each other. The turtle realized that it had been the vixen who had rescued him in his moment of despair, and that now she presented no threat. He tentatively approached her and looked up, ready to pop back into the innermost recesses of his portable home if she moved in the wrong way, but she did no such thing.
He decided to poke her. Lightly, with his head, he poked his head out and nudged her belly a couple of times to show his gratitude. She tilted her head from one side to the other and he huffed in response. Then he walked off and vanished under a leaf; he did not wish to overstay his welcome.
It was with the following encounter that they became friends. He was on his way to a blackberry bush that he'd previously identified when out of nowhere she bounded out of the thick vegetation and almost landed on him. The scared the bejesus out of the little turtle, who immediately hid, but then he timidly poked his head out to see what had frightened him so.
He saw her and drew his head and legs from where they were safely ensconced, then greeted her with a light yelp. She'd seen him in mid-air and had paused her chase to sit with the little reptile. Upon his greeting, she playfully sprang up on all fours and then proceeded to start a funny hop around her new friend while he turned in place and huffed at her.
This went on for a little while, until eventually the turtle tired of the game and went on his way. She watched him go, then bounded off happily; one might've been a bit crankier than the other, but they each was certain that they'd made a new friendship.
The year that followed was full of casual encounters like this one. They both knew where to find each other, so it was no surprise for them to meet up and spend part of their morning or afternoon hopping, rooting, or walking about in company.
The little turtle never once felt threatened by the vixen, nor even once considered the possible danger. The vixen, in turn, was too entertained and endeared with the turtle to in any way see him as a possible meal. They were both fortunate to live in a place rich with enough natural sustenance for both, so it never crossed either's mind that their relationship might ever be anything other than friendly.
The first challenge to their bond came late one afternoon when a young fox came across the twosome. The vixen knew him; he'd been one of her litter, but had not stayed with their mother for long, and instead wandered off with another older vixen who he'd come across when he was still learning to trust his own steps.

[Author's notes: I wrote this sleepily despite having done so at noon; went to bed late last night. I listened to Takashi Kokubo's The Day I Saw the Rainbow while writing it. I did occasionally think of The Fox and the Hound while writing this, but I wouldn't say that it was an inspiration.]
