30 Minutes Human # 00098
Assassin, Rooftop, Canopy, Second Hitman, Options
December 29, 2025

He poked his head out, lightly raising the trapdoor just enough so that he could take a look around the roof. There was nobody there.
Despite the fact that the hallway below had been empty, he was careful to raise the trapdoor quietly, so as to not risk any noise that might make anybody suspicious, or even remember that they'd heard any such sound at all.
Once it was resting on the rubber stoppers he'd brought for that very purpose, he climbed up, pulled his duffel bag up, and placed the thin opaque rubber pad over the opening. Nobody would see any light seeping in; nothing untoward was going on around the maintenance hatch.
Even though he'd carefully prepared his equipment based on recon they'd performed, he was glad to see that the color and texture of his outfit were the exact same as that of the roof. The beanie he'd worn had extra flaps on the back so as to cover his hair, but he'd ultimately decided to cut it short to avoid the risk. The rifle was also rocky-road-colored. Even the duffel bag had been modeled accordingly.
The roof he was on was the third of three buildings in a row, so as he moved he carefully scanned the other two. There was nobody on either, he was clear. Slowly, in a crouch, he moved toward the edge, put his bag against the parapet, checked his cloud cover—it was strong—and peered over.
The crowd was beginning to gather in form. It was patchy, with groups gathered here and there, but there still weren't enough people for it to be a uniform mass of spectators. He knew that this would change soon enough, and that those below would resemble the crowd at a rock concert. Dense, sweaty, all facing the same direction, and excited, though some excited would be positive and some negative. Not everybody was a fan of Flint Jackson.
There were still almost two hours left until the time the speech was scheduled to start at, and these things rarely began on time. This was to his benefit, because it meant that he'd have more than enough time to set his canopy up before helicopters started circling in force. The last one had passed right before he'd opened the trapdoor; he had about eight minutes before the next pass, and then he could improve the canopy at every break.
As he set the canopy up, which only took him a couple of minutes, he thought back to a job he'd had much earlier in this career at a city not too far from this one. It had been something much coarser, an in-and-out restaurant hit, and shouldn't have been an issue. The driver hadn't been sober, though (something he only realized after the fact), and had hit a motorcyclist as soon as he'd pulled off the curb. They'd gotten away, but he'd promised himself that he'd never depend on third parties again as long as he plied this trade.
Now the job was entirely his. The prep, the plan, the execution, the getaway, everything. He enjoyed the job, did it well, and didn't have to worry about morons putting his life and capital at risk.
By the time the chopper showed up, the canopy was almost ready. He hid under it, allowed it to pass, and then finished off a few extra details. He still had well over an hour to wait, so he turned over, put a padded brick under his head, and allowed himself a 30-minute nap.
This job would be peanuts.
* * *
After waking up he hydrated. He had three little pouches of water, and allowed himself one. He'd used the restroom before ascending, and hadn't had too much water throughout the day, so that drink wouldn't present an inconvenience. Then he checked the time; scheduled kickoff was 24 minutes away.
The crowd had, as he'd expected, become a tightly-packed mass, and he could feel the energy emanating from there. There were three significant patches of yellow in the crowd, and those were the patches where most of the vitriol directed at Jackson would come from. As he watched, a scuffle broke out on the edge of one of those, and he saw somebody take a haymaker on the nose. Painful.
He glanced to his right and saw another sniper on the other building. A rank amateur; they were wearing black, had bright white sneakers, had left the roof open, and weren't bothering to crouch. Was this for real?
He saw the rifle the guy had and couldn't believe his eyes. It was a modified Type 63, but a Type 63 nonetheless. This wasn't just amateur hour; this was profoundly idiotic.
He'd never had this happen before. Choppers were constantly overhead now; the guy would be spotted almost immediately. The job was shot.
Then the other sniper retreated to the stairwell, climbed the ladder to the top, and positioned himself next to what was most likely the engine for the elevator. This was covered in black metal and poked out of itself rather haphazardly, which meant that the guy's black outfit wouldn't stand out as much. No longer hopeless. But still incredibly stupid.
He'd been offered a decent amount of money for this job, but one of the rules that had kept him safe all of these years was to walk away if something didn't fit, if there were any cracks. This wasn't a crack; this was the Mariana Trench. He should bail immediately.
However, the other sniper was sweeping the crowd, alternating rifle scope with binoculars. If he detected him there, he might take a shot at him, or flee, or otherwise alert the crowd or the authorities.
As he saw it, he had four options.
He could take the guy out right now. He had two extra silencers. After the job was done, people would find the body and have a hard time figuring out precisely what had happened up here.
He could take the guy out after the job was done. There was no telling how the guy would react as soon as a shot was fired, though.
He could let the guy try to take Jackson out himself. Tricky if he missed, tricky if he didn't. But the shot would come from somewhere that wasn't where he lay.
Or he could just bail and hope for the best. Perhaps the guy would do the job well and he'd be able to charge his fee anyway. His client would never know who'd taken the shot.

[Author's notes: I enjoyed Michael Fassbender's The Killer. It came to mind a couple of times as I wrote this. I don't know if action's my strong suit, though. Or maybe it can be, but it can't be speed-written; needs more craft and research.]
