30 Minutes Human # 00097
Massacre, Survivors, Procreation, Mythical, Plums
December 28, 2025

"Beware, the zoobzie are here!"
He spoke the words too late. The zoobzies came over the cliff, and there were many of them. A great many of them, and they overwhelmed the forces, and the forces were quashed.
Only two survived the great zoobzie attack, and those were Penk, a menk, and Pari, a wari. Penk the menk survived because he could fly, and he flew up, straight towards the sun and the clouds, and the zoobzies could not get him.
Pari the wari, not being able to fly, instead stood like a stone and became as hard and impregnable as one, and there was nothing the zoobzies could do about his stone-shape, nothing at all. They prodded and bit and glooped at him but, alas, they could not pierce his strong hide, and he was saved from their wrath.
Eventually the zoobzie flood receded, and there remained only Penk and Pari, and looking at each other they wept with joy, for now they knew that they were the Great Survivors of the Mystical Premonition.
Pawhand in pawhand they jumped down gaily, over corpses ignored, though avoiding the dead zoobzies, for stepping through one might render lowerwear too disgusting to ever wear again.
Eventually they reached the treeline, and thought of cutting it down, for now that the survivors were identified, why would they need the trees? They changed their minds about this, however, and instead found a great ox, one of the big ones with the attitude of a frigid toad, and slew him, and took his hide, and with it crafted a great hammock, and that hammock they strung between two trees, and then on that hammock they made love, and Pari's wails of pleasure were heard throughout the land. Then they lay and contemplated their future together.
Pari proposed to Penk that they breed an army of laborers to clear the base of the cliff where the zoobzies had massacred all but two, and Penk agreed, and so they copulated ceaselessly for nights and days until they had well over one thousand small fries, and then together they breathed on them songs of argyle until the small fries became grown mewaris, and they got to work.
Long they walked, those laborers, for only one step a day could they take, because their deformities were too great for much motion. Eventually they reached the place of death and horror and with the spoons they all carried in their pockets carved out one bit of corpse each, and then in their slow march returned to the river and saw the water carry off those remains. Then they made their way back, because regardless of how long it took, the base of the cliff had to be cleared.
Penk and Pari spent those many years laying on their ox-hammock, mating, and loving the feel of one another, and all would have been bliss until the death had been removed if a wee little bird had not one day placed itself at arm's reach of Pari.
Pari, seeing the pathetic size and insufficient strength of the small creature, pitied and hated it, and threw out his pawhand and grabbed the bird and ate it in one gulp, and crunched the creature's bones, and blood covered his mouth, and Penk did not enjoy this, and Penk decided that Pari had to go. Penk was hungry too, so he reached into Pari and removed his gut and ate it, ate it all, and in Pari's death throes saw the Greatest Arousal and ate him as he procreated more, and of that great and terrible moment on the ox-hammock between the two great trees three beings were made, and those beings came to be called Plas, and Plis, and Edward.
When Penk no longer had any Pari to feast on he fainted from sadness and fullness, and he was spent, and he awoke no more, and some of the laborers diverted from their path and in time removed the remains of Penk the menk and Pari the wari with spoons and down the river they floated with the rest of them.
Plas and Plis and Edward were all plums, but plums that were special, plums that were rich in energy, spirit, calcium, and vibe. Eventually—and 'twas a long eventually, for this came after the laborers finished their full labor and finalized their tedious ritual drowning—Plas and Plis and Edward determined that Plis should make a tree, so Plis rotted, and his plum seed took root and made a great plum tree, and Plas and Edward laughed at their jest, for plum trees had no future.
Alas, as it turned out, the jest was on them, for no sooner had the sun set for the thousandth time that the tree's shadow fell on both plums and they turned to stone, never to get juicy, never to become a tree themselves.
Then all was still in the land for an age, and nothing moved save for the rustling leaves of trees, and oxen, and some wild foxes that for a time made their home there and then seemingly vanished, and of course save for a single laborer who failed to accomplish his ritual drowning and was thus forced to forever stand on the banks of the river with his face in the water and quaking suffer the misery of eternal drowning.
One day, long after most of this was but a memory of none, two birds found themselves standing on Plas and Edward, and found that they could talk.
"How do you do?" asked one of the birds.
The other was about to respond when out of the bushes sprung a fox, a fox that had been waiting for time untold for the possibility of eating a speaking bird, and indeed ate the speaking bird that had been standing on Edward the stone plum. The other bird fled in terror, and flew all the way up to the top of the cliff to consider herself safe.
She then gazed toward the northeast and sighed, and spoke in an accent none could have identified had anybody been around to hear it: "'Tis a difficult fate, mine, to be the only speaking bird of this land."
She was about to enter an extended soliloquy when she espied a curious glint in the distance, and flew toward it, and saw that the glint had come from one of the great towers of Zoobza, capital and great city of the zoobzies.
The bird perched herself on one of the towers and gazed down, and saw that there was great traffic and bustle, for the zoobzies had invented automobiles and nothing made them happier than riding around in them for weeks at a time and honking. The zoobzies could go a long time without sustenance or sleep, and sometimes did precisely this, simply to get the enormous joy that driving and honking gave them.
"What odd fellows, these are," said the bird, and then her head exploded, for a child on the tower had spotted her, stolen her father's treasured weapon, and blasted the head off the speaking bird. The bird's blood lightly splattered on a corner of the glass tower, and it would be some time before it was touched by Elasarrí, who would then fulfill his destiny and become Grand Overlord of the zoobzies.

[Author's note: I apologize. In my defense, I'm a bit hung over today.]
