30 Minutes Human # 00088
Boys, Copse, Discovery, Beetle, Man-Made
December 12, 2025

The two boys walked down the lane. Their hands would sometimes bump into each other, at which point they'd slightly alter their course to create some space between them, but within a minute or two they'd bump back together, drawn as if by weak magnets. Neither of them noticed.
"Where is it?" asked Pavel. He was the blond one on the left, and wore a white shirt, jean overalls, and muddy sneakers.
"Over there," pointed Andrei, in a red shirt and pink shorts. He was indicating a copse that lay a little distance away and slightly off the path. At seven and a half, Andrei was the younger of the two, but this being his discovery he was in charge of the expedition. He was immensely proud of himself.
"Let's cut across," said Pavel, and stepped onto the grass.
"No," countered his friend. "I know how to find it when coming off the path. Also, the grass is muddy." He resolutely kept the route he was on, and his dark-haired eight-year-old friend soon joined him again.
Once they were close to the trees they stopped. Andrei knew where he was going, but wanted to relish this moment a little longer. Once Pavel saw the beetle, he'd lose the power he held.
"What is it?" asked Pavel. "Come on."
Andrei nodded and advanced. They reached the roots of the tree closest to them, a tall downy birch that had been there for some time. He looked at Pavel and put his index finger up to his lips. He wasn't sure why he did that, but it kept the mystery and intrigue high. Andrei was having fun.
Crouching in, they walked into the light shade. There was no wind that afternoon, and the temperature was just right. It was the sort of day an old man might recollect decades later and perhaps unconsciously weep about.
Andrei reached the spot and moved slowly, peering through the grass and weeds. It was right where he'd left it, and the sprouts he'd ripped out were still laying about, only mildly wilted.
He picked up a twig and lightly tapped the side of the beetle.
"Look," he said.
Pavel leaned in, shifted to the side to allow more light through, and leaned in again. Andrei knew his friend; if he hadn't said anything immediately, it was because he was really caught off-guard. Pavel had shown Andrei enough things to know that his friend liked to downplay surprise and wonder, so to have him like this was a genuine treat.
"I told you it was special," he told Pavel.
Pavel didn't respond—he knelt on the ground and, his own twig firmly grasped, he delicately turned the beetle over. For a moment, its underside glistened from hundreds of tiny points that spanned it from front to back, and then the points seemed to migrate to the side of the beetle that was away from the sun.
"It's a..." said Pavel, but didn't finish the sentence. He didn't know what it was. He was not without his pride, though, and quickly recovered. He remembered a word he'd seen attached to a book image of a creature similar to this one. "It's a scarab."
Andrei nodded. That seemed like an important word, one with impact. He was glad to have impressed Pavel, but knew that his friend would ultimately have the last word. He was okay with that.
"A scarab," he repeated.
"Yes. I think," allowed Pavel. He flipped the beetle back over, and the points of light did as they had before, fleeing the top of the beetle for the now-hidden underside.
"How did you find it?" he asked.
"It was at the foot of that tree," indicated Andrei. "Upside-down. I searched the tree, but couldn't find any nest or hole or anywhere it might've come from."
"And you moved it?" asked Pavel, incredulous.
"Yes." Andrei nodded proudly, and for a moment clasped his hands behind his back. "I pulled some grass and weeds and used a leaf to move it to this little space I cleared."
"Why did you do that?" asked Pavel.
"I didn't like it sitting under the tree like that. It wasn't right. I just didn't like it." He shrugged. "So what now?"
"Come," responded Pavel. "Look."
He leaned in very close and used another, much thinner twig to prod the beetle's legs.
"Do you see that?" he asked. "Look. See?"
He was poking the legs of the beetle from different sides and in different ways.
Andrei shook his head. He didn't see it.
"Look, Dryusha," he said. He poked again. "The legs don't move."
Andrei then understood what his friend was referring to. Even though Pavel was poking at the various legs with varying strength, they weren't responding, not allowing themselves to be nudged even a smidgen.
"This isn't an insect," said Pavel. "This is something somebody made. Like a decoration, or jewelry. A brooch."
"But how can it be?" said Andrei. "I've seen many brooches. My mother has some, as does my babush. They do not look like this. Look at it." He didn't refer to them specifically, but was referring to the lines on the beetle, to its eyes, to the minuscule hairs on its legs, and to the texture of its underside, which was now visible once again.
"This isn't something somebody made."
"And yet," said Pavel. "Look." Grabbing the harder twig again, he poked into the underside, hard, before Pavel could protest. Any word was caught in his throat, however, because the twig didn't penetrate the beetle.
"It's a thing. A person made it," declared Pavel.

[Author's note: Young boys see the world in a different way than we do. I don't know what was special about the beetle, but ultimately, it doesn't matter. Even only with what's described, it's a fantastic adventure for the two young friends.]
