30 Minutes Human # 00094
General Manager, Crises, Overwhelmed, Startup
December 8, 2025

"What happened?"
"The taxi drivers showed up and kicked the shit out of our onboarding station."
"What?" He was taken aback by that response. "What, how bad?"
"Pretty bad. Nobody's hurt, but I don't think we'll be onboarding anybody else at that station. A couple of them made threatening gestures, though nobody actually said anything threatening. But we might want to reconsider the spot."
Martin's morning was going to be spent doing something something else, but that was shot. This needed to be dealt with.
"Alright. You said nobody's hurt, but are they okay? Is the team back?"
"They're heading back now."
"Send them over to chat when they arrive. We can use the big room. You come along as well. Thanks, Denis."
Denis nodded and walked out of the small glass-enclosed office.
Martin looked at the email he'd half-written. There was an issue with an imbalance in marketing spend, and he needed to align the three junior managers on how much they were each entitled to invest. But that was a distant second or even third priority now, even though he knew that he'd put it off too long.
He started a new email message, then changed his mind and turned to their internal chat platform, Prink. In it he copied his own manager, his local head of security Andre, and Andre's manager. He thought about adding others, then decided to keep it small. No need to look like he didn't know how to channel things.
'Our signup station was attacked this morning. No injuries to the team, but our setup was wrecked and we were made to understand that we're not welcome there again. The team's on its way now. Determining path forward.'
He was about send the message when he decided that he should give Andre a call before sending anything. He dialed, and the man picked up before the second ring.
"Hey Andre."
"Chief. What's up? I assume you've heard."
"Yes, I have. What's the situation?"
"I'm here now. Was nearby, fortunately, but I arrived when they'd already left. Sent the team back to the office in a secure vehicle."
"Great detail, thanks Andre." 'Great detail'? What was that about? "Anything worth highlighting or mentioning?"
"There were eight to ten of them. Showed up together, half of them with pipe wrenches or lug nuts. The other half didn't have anything visible in-hand. They didn't even say anything, just walked up and started beating on the tables. Two of them broke, and the other one's in bad shape. The paperwork's almost all here, but a couple of them took some sheets. That part apparently seemed impromptu. A couple of them did throat-slitting motions with their fingers as they were kicking a few final things around. Then they left."
"How do we know they were taxi drivers?"
There was silence on the other end of the line for a beat. "Well, who else? They didn't exactly advertise it, but we've been threatened, and the team says they all looked the part."
"Right. How's the team?"
"Mostly alright. Mikey's a bit shaken up, but he'll be fine."
"Where do you suggest we go from here?" asked Martin.
"My honest opinion? We stay at this location. The alternative is to go somewhere else, then they show up, and the cycle repeats itself. We're never given peace ever again, or at least not until we stand our ground somewhere. That, or they run us out of town. No, we should stand our ground now. I can work on getting us a couple of security guards."
"Alright. I'll get back to you. Thanks Andre."
He hung up and sent the Prink message. He looked out the window for a moment, vacantly watching cars moving on the road below, and then opened his calendar for the day. Normal meetings, a normal day... or at least it had been normal when he'd scheduled it. Maybe it was still normal. This was part of the job, wasn't it?"
Valentina responded after a moment. 'Glad everybody's alright. We do as we've always done. Gus and Andre can determine whether we change location or stay.'
A moment after that Gus chipped in: 'Andre and I agree that we should stay. Getting security guards now.'
Sometimes Martin saw through the veil of his role; he might be the man in charge, but the machine would run whether or not he was involved with it.
He stepped out to go to the restroom and was stopped halfway by Ana. "Martin, I need a few minutes."
"This isn't a good time. Is it urgent?"
"Yes."
"What is it?"
They were standing in the middle of the hall, mid-morning. He was evidently in a hurry. Why wouldn't she just come out with it?
"Can we sit down for a second?"
That's what they normally did, and it tended to turn what could be a 3-minute conversation into a 20-minute one. This wasn't a good day for it.
"No." He moved toward an unfurnished corner. "What is it?"
"Affooz is taking all of our billboards down."
"Why?" He was unable to keep some annoyed alarm out of his voice. He certainly didn't need this right now.
"They're giving them to the political parties. Laura was really sorry, and apologized and gave all these excuses, but yeah. I guess the parties are paying a ton of money for the candidates to be up, and I don't think we're important enough to Affooz for them to hold to our arrangement."
"These were the ones we didn't have a contract with, right?"
"Yep."
"How many? Which billboards?"
Ana listed eight locations in town, little more than half of the ones they had up.
"What do you propose?" Martin knew that she was looking for an answer from him, but his head was elsewhere.
Before she could answer, another voice came in from the side. It was Clara.
"Martin. I'm glad I found you. Giorgio reneged on our offer. He's out."
"What? Why? He—" Martin paused and got his thoughts in order. He couldn't appear to be freaking out. Not now, not here, not ever. "Is he looking for more money?" he asked, with as much composure as he could muster.
"No, I think he's just out. He was offered something by Microsoft. He didn't give much in the way of details. The sort of rejection in which you feel you were lucky just to get a call."
"We had another guy we liked in our pipeline, right?"
"Not really," responded Clara.
"Alright. Well, shit. Let's talk about it in a couple of hours, alright? In the afternoon. Thanks, Clara."
"Martin, what do I do?" asked Ana.

[Author's notes: Some folks just aren't cut out for high-voltage management positions, while others thrive and blossom with the fun of it.]
