30 Minutes Human # 00083
Traffic Cone, Warning Notes, Bar, Hesitation, Extranormal
December 6, 2025

'If you don't move out of the way, the box will hit you in the noggin.'
I read it again. What?
'If you don't move out of the way, the box will hit you in the noggin.'
I found it curious for a moment. Then I was lightly smacked on the head. I looked around: there was a loose and empty cardboard box lying on the pavement beside me.
I picked it up and studied it. There wasn't anything particular about the box: it was the size of one or two shoeboxes, standard flap model, and on the side it had a green logo of a strawberry on a vine that said 'Sunrise Fruits'.
I looked around and above me. It wasn't obvious who'd thrown the box, and it could've flown out of one of the seemingly empty windows in the buildings above me.
The cone was gone. I turned to it to read the note again, a note that now seemed oddly prescient, but it wasn't there anymore, nor was the traffic cone that it had been sticking out of. The spot on the street was now completely empty, as if the cone had never been there.
There hadn't been enough time for anybody to run in and take it, and I would've heard them anyway. There also wasn't any obvious doorway that they might've stepped out of.
My hangover didn't let me analyze the situation much more than I already had. I hadn't consumed anything but booze the previous night, so the odds of me having hallucinated the entire thing were low. Moreover, the cardboard box was on the curb, right where I'd dropped it. But I just wanted to get to Rudy's, have a beer, and wait for Sooz, so I shrugged it off and kept walking.
Four blocks later I came across another cone. This one had another similarly casual message sticking out of it: 'The cat will make you trip if you start walking fast.'
I read it several times, then glanced back toward the block where the cardboard box had hit me. Perhaps it was still there, but it was far to see. This new cone hadn't vanished when I faced ahead again, though, and it continued to warn me about the cat.
This was bugging me out. Rudy's was three blocks down and around the corner, so I stuck my hands in my jacket pockets and began a brisk walk so as to arrive there promptly.
The grey-and-white cat shot out of the gutter and tried to leap over my right foot, but its paw got caught in my shoelace loop and it fell flat on its face. Trying to avoid kicking it, I shot my foot to the side, it dipped into a pothole, and I went down as well. Not on my face, fortunately, but almost—I barely had time to pull my hands out and break my fall.
The cat hissed, tussled against the shoelace loop that had ensnared it, broke free, and vanished into a basement window. I got up, brushed my hands off, and looked at the basement window. Then I turned back toward the cone that had warned me about what had just happened. It was gone.
Once was weird, twice was off-putting. There was something going on with my reality. My hangover felt both heavy and receding at the same time.
I needed to think straight. A beer would help. Checking my pant knee to make sure it hadn't been overly scuffed or dirtied, I resumed my walk toward Rudy's, this time at a casual pace. I wasn't going to risk any further feline encounters.
Rudy's was as it always was: a couple of people at the bar, a few others scattered across the tables, two guys shooting pool. Nothing unusual here.
"Beb, what's up?" I asked the bartender.
"Heyo. You good?"
"Yeah," I lied. "All's gravy."
"What can I get you?"
"Something tall and cold. No, actually. Draft me. Middle."
Beb nodded and poured me what was probably their best-selling drink, the house IPA. He put it on a coaster and passed me a pretzel pack.
"Try these, tell me what you think. We have a vendor who won't give up pushing them on us."
I was about to take a seat but thought better of it and made my way to the restroom in the back. I'd always thought that it was too big for an establishment of this size, but it probably featured a backstory in which somebody suckered somebody else into installing a large W.C. where one wasn't needed.
I thought about Marla while I stood at the urinal. I'd met her at a place like this, and I'd screwed up with her because of a place like this. That would've been a shame if I'd cared much about her, but I never really had.
The cone almost made me stumble. I turned and stepped while doing up my zipper, and it was right there behind me. I knew it hadn't been there when I'd walked in; it had appeared while I'd been standing to attention. Nobody had entered the room nor made any noise, at least none that I could discern over my stream, which wasn't a terribly loud one.
Atop the cone was a message. It said 'DO NOT leave the bathroom yet. Wait for water twenty times.'
As I finished reading it, the urinal's periodic release went off. Was that what it referred to?
I washed my hands as I watched the cone in the mirror. Where were these things coming from? Was this merely some prank, or something deeper?
I made my way to the door and was about to open it when I thought of the box and the cat. It had been correct both times then. Was it correct this time?
I looked at the handle. There was no reason why I shouldn't push it down and go get my beer, which I now regretted ordering before coming here to relieve myself. The initial fizzy hit would be slightly reduced. I should go drink it anyway, then ask for another. Or just ask for another and pay for the two beers.
I didn't do any of that. My eyes strayed to the note on the cone, and I noted the capitalized words. There hadn't been any of those before.
So what if I stayed? So what if I followed these messages? There was likely something extranormal going on here, something involving a power that had more control over reality than I did. So what if I held on for a few minutes, did as the thing suggested?
I stood there for a long moment, waiting to come to a decision. Then the urinal went off again. That made twice. My decision was made.

[Author's note: This concept has been done many times, and many of those were better than this attempt. But I'm pretty beat up today, and I would quite likely have skipped if this hadn't been a week in which I wasn't able to write for five days straight.]
