30 Minutes Human # 00084
Apology, Hurtful Comment, Fat, Childhood, Coffee Shop
December 8, 2025

She saw that he was walking in her direction and did a 180. Forget that guy; she was not going to be pulled into conversation again.
She walked in normal speed, wondering whether to duck into a store or take a left at a corner, but before she found an good option, she felt his hand on her elbow.
"Maria, hi!"
Had he seen her and caught up to her, sprinting from over a block away? Had he actually sprinted?
She looked at him, a weak smile on her lips that didn't reach her eyes.
"Oh hey, Roni, hey. How are you." Not a question.
"I'm great! I thought that was you, glad I saw you! What're you up to in this part of town?"
"Errands," she managed. She'd never been good at thinking on her feet in this sort of conversation.
"Right, right," he said. "Listen, I got a bit of time, just dropped my dog off at—well, it doesn't matter. Want to grab a cup of coffee?"
"I can't right now, Roni. Sorry. I'm busy."
He nodded. "Look, I know you're mad at me." His voice had dropped its showmanship, although that might be showmanship of its own. "Can we chat? A coffee or tea or whatever you like."
He looked around, apparently looking for venues they could pop into. She didn't respond, so he continued.
"That place over there, I've heard of it. I think they—"
"Roni, I don't have time. Sorry." She shifted her weight, as if ready to move off.
"Maria, let a guy apologize. Come on." He stood there, hands in his coat pockets, his body also withdrawn. He looked vulnerable, almost. She'd never seen that in him. Showmanship, maybe, but at least one rarely displayed.
She sighed and pulled her phone out, as if to check the time or, against all odds, a saving urgent message from anybody. But there was no such thing, and it was early.
"Fine. Let's go in here. Twenty minutes." She turned into a small, hipster-looking coffee shop, the type with a small blackboard outside advertising mocha, and he followed.
* * *
They sat at a table below the mirror and by the window. She'd taken the chair, by choice, so she could easier escape if so she wished. He was on the wall couch.
"Ok, what?" she asked. She hadn't taken her coat off, and her purse was on her lap. She could spring and leave as quickly as a snap of her fingers.
"Look, Maria, I'm sorry. That's at the heart of it. I get excited about stuff and say stupid shit sometimes. I get excited all the time. I'm an excitable guy. And I say things. I don't think all of them through."
"Mm-hmm," she said. Her hands gripped her purse tighter. She was angry. This motherfucker.
"What I said I meant in a good way, because I cared. Not critically, you know? Not to be mean. I might be a lot of things, but not mean. I don't like to hurt people like that. So if—"
"Do you think I'm fat, Roni?" She surprised herself by asking that, and found that she was leaning forward, the expression in her eyes probably furious, boring into his sad little face. Her purse's leather strap would probably be permanently damaged from this exchange.
Her nose scrunched up as she asked him again, and from a removed mental distance she noted that she was livid with rage. She liked it. "Tell me, Roni. Do you think I'm fat?"
He started to respond, closed his mouth, and looked out the window, apparently the passersby for a moment. Contemplation, in her experience, was rare for him. Then he responded.
"You know, I used to be fat," he said. She'd made up her mind to press her question, but this response caught her off guard.
"When I was a kid. I was fat. From like... age 9 to 14."
Displaying astoundingly bad timing, the waiter chose that moment to show up with their drinks. Tea for him, frappuccino for her. The guy placed a small plate of cookies between them; her eyes shot to them for a moment, then back to Roni. She would absolutely not be touching those.
He continued. "9 to 14. That's an age window in which a lot of things are determined for a person. I didn't play any sports, I was constantly picked on. The other guys were starting to talk about their willies, and I couldn't see mine without a mirror."
In almost any other conversation with a guy, and particularly with Roni, any comment about their own dick would've made Maria stand up and leave. In this case, she didn't move and stayed where she was.
"Eventually I discovered wrestling, and it helped me lose weight, and the story sort of changed from there. But I got that inner fat kid who went through a lot of hell."
"So how you deal with that now is calling other people fat? Women? It's that how you 'give back'??" She'd wanted to sound angry when she said that, but it hadn't come out as she'd hoped.
"I didn't call you fat. I mentioned a great weight loss program, both exercise and diet, that people I know have used to great success. It's—"
"That's calling me fat!!" she pushed back from the table, and people at a couple of tables glanced in her direction. The volume of her words hadn't been subtle.
He didn't respond, but just sat there in silence. After a few moments, she got up.
"Thanks for the frappuccino, Roni," she said.
"Please, Maria. Sit down." He looked up at her, eyes almost pleading. "Come on. It wasn't like that."
She knew that she'd been waiting for him to say the right thing, because she'd only stood up but not walked off. She knew she wouldn't leave. When he said that, she sat down again.
"Are you fat?" he asked.
It was an odd question, and it didn't make her angry. If he'd asked 'Do you think you're fat?' that might've made the cup flow over. But his question wasn't one of opinion; it was one of fact.
"Yes," she responded.
"Do you hate it enough to change it?"
She didn't expect to have this conversation with him, not a frank one, but found herself wanting to share everything about it. The frustration, the loneliness, the self-hate. She wanted it to come out, then and there.

[Author's notes: This one results from a combination of inspirational anecdotes and characters from real life. I don't have much to say about it.]
