30 Minutes Human # 00096
Bodyguard, Failure to Protect, Dead Child, Deepest Sorrow, Parents
December 25, 2025

“What if you can’t protect him?”
The words echoed in his mind, sometimes louder, sometimes softer, but always present. “What if you can’t protect him?”
He sat on a bench in Greer Park, which was a few blocks away from the hospital. People were milling about on the street before him, some to, some fro, some apparently in a hurry, some taking their time. One guy was leaning against a lamppost smoking a cigarette and reading from a small notebook. He seemed comfortable. He was living.
Narry wasn’t living. Narry had died a couple of hours ago when Andrea had passed to a higher plane.
Andrea was in a better place. He’d had the heart and soul of an angel and a smile that would be right at home in a movie poster. He’d been sweet, friendly, kind, smart, a one-in-a-million sort of kid. He was in a good place. That he didn’t doubt.
Narry was in Hell. He’d done some things in his life that he wasn’t proud of, and a few things that he’d never tell a soul about, but he never expected this sort of misery, didn’t think that he could be deserving of it. There was a thick lead weight in his chest and he just wanted to curl up around it, right here on the floor, die a real death, and know no more.
“What if you can’t protect him?”
He looked down at himself. There was some blood on his pants and jacket, but they were of dark fabric, so it wasn’t obvious. Not a drop of it was his. It was all the boy’s.
He looked down at the stain on his upper left thigh. The boy had bled out right there. By the time the paramedics had shown up, which may have been fast but had felt like an eternity, there was nothing they could do for him.
He was just glad that Andrea had lost consciousness so soon after being hit. It hadn’t been painful. His last word, his last memory of him being Andrea, had been about some play he’d seen on TV in a sports game the night before.
He thought back to the attack, the shots, the glass, the certainty that the boy had been hit, the fact that nothing had mattered after that, the distant notion that their assailants had fled. He hadn’t cared about anything else then, and still didn’t.
He knew that he’d be angry. Knew that he’d soon be furious beyond words, and that he might spent the rest of his days, short or long as they might be, seeking retribution.
But he’d been around death enough. There was no bringing him back. The kid was gone.
He felt a buzz by his left hip. He jumped, forgetting for a moment about the fullness of what he’d just been revisiting, and saw that he was requested at the hospital. He stood and walked.
Andrea’s parents been at their break house when the attack had happened and had left for town the moment they’d heard of it. Narry thought they were good parents, or good enough, at least. He didn’t believe that anybody with that much money, class, sophistication, and social status could be an extraordinary parent, because they had too much to balance to just excel at the one thing. But these guys made a great attempt of it, and he respected them for it, more than for any of the thousand things they were commonly known for.
They had trusted him with their most precious asset, with their treasure. And he’d failed them utterly.
“What if you can’t protect him?”
He nodded at the watchman at the entrance, made his way back to the elevator, and rode up, not dreading what was about to happen nearly enough. He knew death and sorrow, but at the back of the mind knew that he couldn’t fathom the power of the grief of the mother of a dead nine-year-old.
He saw them sitting on a pair of chairs at the side of the hallway. People recognized and glanced at them as they walked by, but they looked small and broken, like the life had been taken out of a body and all that remained was sad flesh.
He stood behind them and didn’t make a sound, expecting them to know that he was there and turn around, as they always did. They were always in tune with their environment. This time was different, however; they were too lost in their own personal hellish basement.
Eventually he realized that he’d have to make himself known. He wouldn’t have done this if they’d not relayed a very specific instructions to him; he’d rather vanish into nothing, never able to be in their presence again.
“Ma’am,” he said softly.
She turned. She was a beautiful woman, and had always been described as such from the very beginning of her career. Today she looked ten years older. Twenty. There were lines in her face that must’ve sprouted that very day, because they weren’t there the previous morning, and he’d seen her with and without makeup any number of times.
Claus turned as well, and although he initially looked the same, he found a black stillness in his eyes that, even in a moment like this one, unnerved Narry. Something equally dead and deadly. It looked as though Claus had successfully crossed the first two stages of brief and was now Bargaining on his own terms.
“Narry,” she said. Her eyes fixed on his and he thought back to that week, years earlier, in which he’d imagined that something had almost happened between them. That would’ve been damaging, and he’d come to terms with the fact that it had just been his imagination. This was inconceivably more hurtful.
He tried to say something but the grunt simply caught in his throat. He’d not wept in many years, and he’d not wept today, but now that he was with her he collapsed. He fell to his knees, her hand in his, and wept like the broken husk of a man he now was.
The room fell silent around them, and it went on for as long as half a minute before she gestured him upward.
“I’m sorry,” he said, brushing his eyes with the back of his hand. “Sorry. How dare I.”
Claus handed him a paper towel, and he accepted it gratefully and used it. Then he looked back at them.
Claus had the same expression on his face, but new with an even keener edge to it. Narry knew that edge wasn’t for him.
“Narry, we know it wasn’t your fault. Steve told us. It was completely out of your hands. We don’t blame you,” she said.
At this, Claus dropped his gaze to the floor before him, as if the blame were on his own shoulders. That was truly an absurd notion, thought Narry.
“You were always there for him. Always. He said that you were his best friend more than once. And I know you would’ve taken that bullet, any number of bullets, or anything, for him. He loved you. One time he—”
Her voice cracked at this, and it took her a moment to regain her composure. She truly was an extraordinary woman.
“One time he told me that when he got married he would make you one of his groomsmen.”
He felt a small gnawing at the bottom of his stomach, and that small gnawing ballooned in the blink of an eye. He’d been robbed. They’d all been robbed. There was going to be hell to pay now.
He shifted his gaze at Claus, and found that his boss was staring right through him. He stared right back. They held this for a moment, and Claus nodded.
“Okay,” said Narry. “Okay.”

[Author’s notes: I hit the bottom of today’s food coma when I was about three quarters of the way through this one. I don’t think it impacted the narrative flow nor the constancy of the emotional thread I tried to weave, but we’ll see when I edit it. // Editing notes: Looks good!]
